.TH ASHTOQD 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
ashtoqd \- convert MetOffice volcanic ash advisories to querydata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ashtoqd
.RI [ options ]
.I indir outfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ashtoqd
converts MetOffice CSV volcanic ash advisories into querydata. Ash
concentrations and ash cloud boundaries cannot be combined into a single
output because their model run times differ; only one of them is
extracted per invocation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the help message.
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the version number.
.TP
.B \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose mode.
.TP
.BI \-t " time" ", \-\-time " time
Model run time.
.TP
.BI \-P " projection" ", \-\-projection " projection
Output projection.
.TP
.BI \-i " indir" ", \-\-indir " indir
Input CSV directory.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile" ", \-\-outfile " outfile
Output querydata file.
.TP
.B \-b ", " \-\-boundary
Extract boundary information instead of concentrations.
.TP
.BI \-p " number,name" ", \-\-producer " number,name
Producer number and name.
.TP
.BI \-\-producernumber " number"
Producer number.
.TP
.BI \-\-producername " name"
Producer name.
.SH EXAMPLES
Convert concentrations from a directory of CSV files:
.PP
.RS 4
ashtoqd \-i /data/ash/csv \-o ash.sqd
.RE
.PP
Extract boundary polygons instead:
.PP
.RS 4
ashtoqd \-b \-i /data/ash/csv \-o ash_boundary.sqd
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qdinfo (1),
.BR qdcrop (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
