.TH BUFRTOQD 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
bufrtoqd \- convert BUFR observations to querydata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bufrtoqd
.RI [ options ]
.I infile/dir outfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bufrtoqd
reads one or more BUFR observation messages and writes the contents as
querydata. The input may be a single BUFR file or a directory of BUFR
files. Mapping from BUFR descriptors to querydata parameters is driven
by a configuration file.
.PP
By default the conversion uses the BUFR descriptor code rather than the
parameter name; this avoids ambiguity when several BUFR descriptors
share a name (for instance code 010004 and 007004 are both named
PRESSURE). The previous name-based behaviour can be restored with
.BR \-\-usebufrname .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the help message.
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the version number.
.TP
.B \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Debug mode.
.TP
.B \-\-subsets
Decode all subsets, not just the first one.
.TP
.B \-\-insignificant
Extract sounding levels with zero extended vertical significance (BUFR
code 8042). This may inflate the output considerably for high-resolution
soundings.
.TP
.BI \-\-roundtohours " hours"
Round observation times to multiples of the given number of hours.
.TP
.BI \-c " file" ", \-\-config " file
BUFR parameter configuration file (default
.IR /usr/share/smartmet/formats/bufr.conf ).
.TP
.BI \-s " file" ", \-\-stations " file
Stations CSV file (default
.IR /usr/share/smartmet/stations.csv ).
.TP
.BI \-i " path" ", \-\-infile " path
Input BUFR file or directory.
.TP
.BI \-o " file" ", \-\-outfile " file
Output querydata file.
.TP
.BI \-m " number" ", \-\-message " number
Extract only the given message number.
.TP
.BI \-C " name" ", \-\-category " name
Extract only the given BUFR data category. Recognised names include
.IR land ", " sea ", " sounding ", " synoptic ", " radar ", " upper\ air\ level ,
and others.
.TP
.BI \-B " file" ", \-\-localtableB " file
Local BUFR table B.
.TP
.BI \-D " file" ", \-\-localtableD " file
Local BUFR table D.
.TP
.BI \-p " number,name" ", \-\-producer " number,name
Producer number and name.
.TP
.BI \-\-producernumber " number"
Producer number (default 0).
.TP
.BI \-\-producername " name"
Producer name (default UNKNOWN).
.TP
.B \-a ", " \-\-autoproducer
Guess the producer automatically.
.TP
.B \-\-usebufrname
Use BUFR parameter name instead of code number for mapping.
.TP
.B \-I ", " \-\-Ident
Load only AMDAR messages that carry an aircraft registration or other
identification.
.TP
.BI \-r " spec" ", \-\-remap " spec
Remap AMDAR BUFR message codes; format
.IR name1,code1,code2,code3;name2,code1,... .
.TP
.BI \-N " count" ", \-\-minobservatios " count
Minimum number of observations for an acceptable AMDAR (default 3).
.TP
.BI \-M " hours" ", \-\-maxdurationhours " hours
Maximum AMDAR takeoff/landing phase duration in hours (default 2).
.TP
.B \-t ", " \-\-totalcloudoctas
Disable octa-to-percentage conversion for TotalCloudCover.
.TP
.B \-f ", " \-\-forcepressurechangesign
Set PressureChange sign to match PressureTendency value.
.SH EXAMPLES
Convert all BUFR files in a directory:
.PP
.RS 4
bufrtoqd \-i /data/bufr \-o synop.sqd
.RE
.PP
Extract only sounding category messages:
.PP
.RS 4
bufrtoqd \-C sounding \-i /data/bufr \-o sounding.sqd
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR synop2qd (1),
.BR temp2qd (1),
.BR radartoqd (1),
.BR qdinfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
