.TH COMBINEHISTORY 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
combineHistory \- combine querydata files from one or more history directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B combineHistory
.RI [ options ]
.I directory
.RI [ directory2 " ...] > " output
.br
.B combineHistory
.RI [ options ]
.B \-O
.I outfile directory
.RI [ directory2 " ...]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B combineHistory
combines querydata files from one or more history directories into a
single output. Files older than the
.B \-p
limit or further into the future than
.B \-f
are discarded. The result is written to standard output, or to a file
when
.B \-O
is used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-p " hours"
Maximum age into the past (default 48).
.TP
.BI \-f " hours"
Maximum age into the future (default 8).
.TP
.BI \-S " timestamp"
Reference time to use instead of the wall clock.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-o
Require all input files to share the same origin time.
.TP
.BI \-O " filename"
Memory-mapped output file.
.TP
.B \-r
Pick the oldest origin time instead of the latest.
.TP
.B \-t
Try to build a time bag instead of a time list.
.TP
.B \-1
Take only the latest file from each directory.
.TP
.BI \-N " name"
Set a new producer name.
.TP
.BI \-D " id"
Set a new producer id.
.SH EXAMPLES
Combine the last 24 hours from a history directory:
.PP
.RS 4
combineHistory \-p 24 /data/forecast/history > combined.sqd
.RE
.PP
Memory-mapped output and only latest file per directory:
.PP
.RS 4
combineHistory \-1 \-O combined.sqd /data/dir1 /data/dir2
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qdcombine (1),
.BR qdcrop (1),
.BR qdinfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
