.TH CSV2QD 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
csv2qd \- convert CSV station data to querydata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B csv2qd
.RI [ options ]
.I infile outfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B csv2qd
converts ASCII data in CSV form to querydata. By default the first
column must contain the station id and the second the UTC time; the
remaining columns are interpreted as parameter values whose names are
specified with
.BR \-p .
The column ordering can be customised with
.BR \-O .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the help message.
.TP
.B \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Quiet mode.
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the version number.
.TP
.BI \-m " string" ", \-\-missing " string
Missing value string (default is the empty string).
.TP
.BI \-\-prodnum " number"
Producer number (default 1001).
.TP
.BI \-\-prodname " name"
Producer name (default SYNOP).
.TP
.BI \-i " file" ", \-\-infile " file
Input CSV file.
.TP
.BI \-o " file" ", \-\-outfile " file
Output querydata file.
.TP
.BI \-\-files " list"
All input files and the output file given as a single list.
.TP
.BI \-p " names" ", \-\-params " names
Parameter names of the CSV columns.
.TP
.BI \-P " file" ", \-\-paramsfile " file
Parameter configuration file (default
.IR /usr/share/smartmet/parameters.csv ).
.TP
.BI \-O " order" ", \-\-order " order
Column ordering. Recognised values are
.IR idtime ", " timeid ", " idtimelevel ", " idleveltime ", " timeidlevel ", " timelevelid ", " levelidtime
and
.IR leveltimeid .
.TP
.BI \-S " file" ", \-\-stationsfile " file
Station configuration file (default
.IR /smartmet/share/csv/stations.csv ).
.TP
.B \-A ", " \-\-allstations
Store every station from the station file in the output, not only the
ones with data.
.TP
.BI \-\-origintime " time"
Origin time of the output querydata.
.TP
.BI \-t " zone" ", \-\-timezone " zone
Time zone of the input timestamps.
.TP
.BI \-\-leveltype " number"
Level type as a number.
.SH EXAMPLES
Convert a SYNOP-style CSV file with named columns:
.PP
.RS 4
csv2qd \-p Temperature,DewPoint,Pressure obs.csv obs.sqd
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qd2csv (1),
.BR qdpoint (1),
.BR qdinfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
