.TH GRIB2TOQD 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
grib2toqd \- convert a single GRIB2 file to querydata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B grib2toqd
.RI [ options ]
.I inputgribfile
.B >
.I outputqdata
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B grib2toqd
reads a single GRIB file (most commonly GRIB2) and writes querydata to
standard output, or to a file given with
.BR \-o .
For converting multiple GRIB files at once, see
.BR gribtoqd (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-m " size"
Maximum size of generated data in megabytes (default 1024).
.TP
.BI \-o " output"
Write to the given file instead of standard output.
.TP
.BI \-l " spec"
Ignore individual levels, given as
.IR t<type>v<value>,...\&
(for example
.IR t105v3,t109v255 ).
A
.B *
wildcard in the value position ignores all values of the given level
type.
.TP
.BI \-L " types"
Accept only the listed level types.
.TP
.BI \-p " id,name"
Producer id and name for the result.
.TP
.BI \-D " path"
Path to grib_api / eccodes definitions files. Defaults to
.B GRIB_DEFINITION_PATH
or the system setting.
.TP
.B \-f
Disable the latlon-globe-fix that converts a 0\(en360 longitude range
into \-180\(en180.
.TP
.B \-n
Name output files by level type, e.g.\&
.IR output.sqd_levelType_100 .
.TP
.B \-t
Report run time on standard error after completion.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-d
Crop all parameters except those listed in the parameter change table
(see
.BR \-c ).
.TP
.BI \-c " file"
Parameter change table file containing parameter id and name remaps.
.TP
.BI \-g " count"
Print info about the first
.I count
grids on standard error;
.B \-1
prints information about every grid.
.TP
.BI \-H " spec"
Calculate and add a pressure parameter to hybrid data; format
.IR sfcPresId,hybridPreId=1,hybridPreName=P .
.TP
.BI \-r " spec"
Calculate and add a relative humidity parameter to hybrid data; format
.IR specHumId,hybridRHId=13,hybridRHName=RH .
.TP
.BI \-G " x1,y1,x2,y2"
Minimal subgrid to crop, defined by bottom-left and top-right
longitude/latitude.
.TP
.BI \-P " proj"
Project the data to the given projection. The string follows the
.B NFmiAreaFactory
convention used elsewhere in newbase, for example
.IR stereographic,20,90,60:6,51.3,49,70.2:82,91 .
Different grid sizes for surface, pressure and hybrid data may be given
by appending extra dimensions, or three full projection strings may be
separated with semicolons.
.SH EXAMPLES
Convert a GRIB2 file to querydata:
.PP
.RS 4
grib2toqd ecmwf.grib2 > ecmwf.sqd
.RE
.PP
Project to a stereographic FMI Scandinavia area:
.PP
.RS 4
grib2toqd \-P stereographic,20,90,60:6,51.3,49,70.2:82,91 \\
.br
\ \ ecmwf.grib2 \-o ecmwf.sqd
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gribtoqd (1),
.BR qdtogrib (1),
.BR grib2tojpg (1),
.BR qdinfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
