.TH GRIBTOQD 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
gribtoqd \- convert one or more GRIB files to querydata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gribtoqd
.RI [ options ]
.I inputfile1
.RI [ inputfile2 " ...] > " outputqdata
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gribtoqd
is the original GRIB-to-querydata converter and can read both GRIB1 and
GRIB2 messages. Multiple input files may be combined into a single
output. For a simpler GRIB2-focused converter that takes a single input
file, see
.BR grib2toqd (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-o " output"
Write to the given file instead of standard output.
.TP
.BI \-l " spec"
Ignore individual levels, given as
.IR t<type>v<value>,...
A
.B *
wildcard in the value position ignores all values of the given type.
.TP
.BI \-L " types"
Accept only the listed level types.
.TP
.BI \-p " id,name"
Producer id and name for the result.
.TP
.BI \-D " path"
Path to grib_api / eccodes definitions files. Defaults to
.B GRIB_DEFINITION_PATH
or the system setting.
.TP
.B \-a
Apply an Atlantic-centred fix: data covering 0\(en360 in latlon is
shifted to \-180\(en180.
.TP
.B \-A
Apply a Pacific-centred fix: data covering \-180\(en180 in latlon is
shifted to 0\(en360.
.TP
.B \-S
Swap the left and right halves of the data.
.TP
.B \-n
Name output files by level type, e.g.\&
.IR output.sqd_levelType_100 .
.TP
.B \-t
Report run time on standard error after completion.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-C
Try to combine input grids covering adjacent areas into larger areas.
.TP
.B \-z
Read data lines in zig-zag fashion, starting left to right.
.TP
.B \-i
Ignore reduced_ll handling and let grib_api do the conversion.
.TP
.B \-d
Crop all parameters except those listed in the parameter change table.
.TP
.BI \-c " file"
Parameter change table file with parameter id and name remaps.
.TP
.BI \-g " count"
Print info about the first
.I count
grids on standard error;
.B \-1
prints information about every grid.
.TP
.BI \-H " spec"
Calculate and add a pressure parameter to hybrid data; format
.IR sfcPresId,hybridPreId=1,hybridPreName=P .
.TP
.BI \-r " spec"
Calculate and add a relative humidity parameter to hybrid data; format
.IR specHumId,hybridRHId=13,hybridRHName=RH .
.TP
.BI \-G " x1,y1,x2,y2"
Minimal subgrid to crop, defined by bottom-left and top-right
longitude/latitude.
.TP
.BI \-P " proj"
Project the data to the given projection. The string follows the
.B NFmiAreaFactory
convention used elsewhere in newbase, for example
.IR stereographic,20,90,60:6,51.3,49,70.2:82,91 .
Surface, pressure and hybrid data may use different grid sizes by
appending dimensions, or three projection strings separated with
semicolons.
.SH EXAMPLES
Convert a directory of GRIB files into one querydata file:
.PP
.RS 4
gribtoqd \-o forecast.sqd /data/grib/*.grib2
.RE
.PP
Crop to a Scandinavian bounding box:
.PP
.RS 4
gribtoqd \-G 6,51,49,71 \-o scand.sqd ecmwf.grib2
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR grib2toqd (1),
.BR qdtogrib (1),
.BR grib2tojpg (1),
.BR qdcrop (1),
.BR qdinfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
