.TH H5TOQD 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
h5toqd \- convert EUMETNET OPERA HDF5 radar files to querydata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B h5toqd
.RI [ options ]
.I infile outfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B h5toqd
converts EUMETNET OPERA radar files in HDF5 (ODIM) format to
querydata. Only the features that are known to be in active use are
supported.
.PP
The output filename may contain placeholders that are substituted from
ODIM metadata:
.IR %ORIGINTIME ", " %PRODUCT ", " %QUANTITY ", " %WMO ", " %RAD ", " %PLC ", " %NOD ", " %ORG ", " %CTY ,
and
.IR %INTERVAL .
If a setting is missing, a default replacement is used; the defaults
can be overridden with the
.B \-\-default-*
options.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the help message.
.TP
.B \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-\-quietproj
Disable PROJ error messages.
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the version number.
.TP
.BI \-P " proj" ", \-\-projection " proj
Output projection.
.TP
.BI \-i " file" ", \-\-infile " file
Input HDF5 file.
.TP
.BI \-o " file" ", \-\-outfile " file
Output querydata file.
.TP
.B \-\-prodparfix
Take the last number from the prodpar array.
.TP
.B \-\-lowercase
Convert the output filename to lower case.
.TP
.B \-\-uppercase
Convert the output filename to upper case.
.TP
.BI \-\-datasetname " prefix"
Dataset name prefix (default
.IR dataset ).
.TP
.BI \-p " number,name" ", \-\-producer " number,name
Producer number and name.
.TP
.BI \-\-producernumber " number"
Producer number (default 1014).
.TP
.BI \-\-producername " name"
Producer name (default RADAR).
.TP
.B \-\-startepochs
Use the HDF5 startepochs value as the valid time.
.TP
.BI \-\-default-plc " value"
Default replacement for
.IR %PLC .
.TP
.BI \-\-default-wmo " value"
Default replacement for
.IR %WMO .
.TP
.BI \-\-default-rad " value"
Default replacement for
.IR %RAD .
.TP
.BI \-\-default-nod " value"
Default replacement for
.IR %NOD .
.TP
.BI \-\-default-org " value"
Default replacement for
.IR %ORG .
.TP
.BI \-\-default-cty " value"
Default replacement for
.IR %CTY .
.SH EXAMPLES
Convert an OPERA HDF5 radar file:
.PP
.RS 4
h5toqd \-i radar.h5 \-o radar.sqd
.RE
.PP
Use ODIM placeholders in the output name:
.PP
.RS 4
h5toqd \-i radar.h5 \-o '%ORIGINTIME_%QUANTITY.sqd'
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR radartoqd (1),
.BR pgm2qd (1),
.BR combinepgms2qd (1),
.BR qdinfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
