.TH NCTOQD 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
nctoqd \- convert CF-compliant NetCDF to querydata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nctoqd
.RI [ options ]
.I infile outfile
.br
.B nctoqd
.RI [ options ]
.B \-o
.I outfile infile
.RI ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nctoqd
converts CF-1.4 (and later) compliant NetCDF files to querydata. The
mapping from NetCDF variables to querydata parameters is driven by a
configuration file based on CF standard names; additional name
overrides can be supplied with
.BR \-C .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the help message.
.TP
.BI \-c " file" ", \-\-config " file
Replacement NetCDF CF standard name conversion table (default
.IR /usr/share/smartmet/formats/netcdf.conf ).
.TP
.BI \-C " file" ", \-\-configs " file
Extra NetCDF name conversions; these take precedence over the standard
conversion table.
.TP
.BI \-n " value" ", \-\-conventions " value
Minimum NetCDF Conventions string to verify, or empty to disable the
check (default
.IR CF-1.0 ).
.TP
.B \-d ", " \-\-debug
Enable debugging output.
.TP
.BI \-\-tdim " name"
Name of the T-dimension parameter.
.TP
.BI \-\-xdim " name"
Name of the X-dimension parameter.
.TP
.BI \-\-ydim " name"
Name of the Y-dimension parameter.
.TP
.BI \-\-zdim " name"
Name of the Z-dimension parameter.
.TP
.B \-\-info
Print information on the data dimensions and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-experimental
Enable experimental features.
.TP
.BI \-i " file" ", \-\-infile " file
Input NetCDF file.
.TP
.BI \-a " attrs" ", \-\-globalAttributes " attrs
NetCDF global attributes to apply, given on the command line.
.TP
.B \-\-mmap
Memory map the output file to save RAM.
.TP
.BI \-o " file" ", \-\-outfile " file
Output querydata file.
.TP
.BI \-m " spec" ", \-\-parameter " spec
Define a parameter conversion using the same format as the
configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-p " number,name" ", \-\-producer " number,name
Producer number and name.
.TP
.BI \-P " proj" ", \-\-projection " proj
Final projection of the output data.
.TP
.BI \-\-producernumber " number"
Producer number.
.TP
.BI \-\-producername " name"
Producer name.
.TP
.B \-s ", " \-\-fixstaggered
Modify staggered data to its base form.
.TP
.BI \-u " params" ", \-\-ignoreunitchangeparams " params
Parameters to exclude from the unit-change pass.
.TP
.BI \-t " minutes" ", \-\-timeshift " minutes
Additional time shift in minutes.
.TP
.BI \-T " value" ", \-\-tolerance " value
Axis stepping tolerance.
.TP
.B \-U ", " \-\-autoids
Generate ids automatically for unknown parameters, starting at 30000.
.TP
.B \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the version number.
.TP
.BI \-x " params" ", \-\-excludeparams " params
Parameters to exclude.
.TP
.BI \-\-addparams " list"
Add parameters by calculating them. Currently supported:
.IR Humidity .
.SH EXAMPLES
Convert a CF-compliant NetCDF file:
.PP
.RS 4
nctoqd input.nc output.sqd
.RE
.PP
Combine several files into one output:
.PP
.RS 4
nctoqd \-o combined.sqd file1.nc file2.nc file3.nc
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nc2qd (1),
.BR wrftoqd (1),
.BR laps2qd (1),
.BR qdinfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
