.TH QDAREA 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
qdarea \- compute weather statistics over named locations and areas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qdarea
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qdarea
extracts weather information over user-defined points, circles around
points, and arbitrary polygons in querydata. Typical uses include daily
maximum temperatures at a single location, mean wind speed within a
radius of a point, or maxima over a sea area defined by a shape.
.PP
The result list is given with
.B \-P
in the form
.IR areafunction(timefunction(parametername)) ;
when the area and time function are the same, the simpler form
.I function(parametername)
may be used. The same simpler form is acceptable for point locations
where there is no area to aggregate over.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-P " paramlist"
Comma-separated list of results to compute, e.g.\&
.IR mean(min(t2m)),mean(max(t2m)) .
.TP
.BI \-p " location"
Location specification, for example
.I Helsinki:25
(25 km radius around Helsinki) or
.IR merialueet/B1 .
.TP
.BI \-T " interval"
Time interval. For example,
.I 06\-18
selects daytime hours and
.I 6:12
selects nights as well.
.TP
.BI \-t " timezone"
Time zone, e.g.\&
.IR Europe/Helsinki " or " UTC .
The default is taken from
.IR fmi.conf .
.TP
.BI \-q " querydata"
Querydata file. The default is taken from
.IR fmi.conf .
.TP
.BI \-c " coordinatefile"
Coordinate file. The default is taken from
.IR fmi.conf .
.TP
.B \-s
Print results as a PHP hash table.
.TP
.BI \-S " namelist"
Print results as a PHP hash table with named data fields.
.TP
.B \-E
Print times as Epoch seconds.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-Q
Quiet mode \(em do not print mere warnings.
.SH EXAMPLES
Mean of daily maxima of wind speed and mean wind direction over the sea
area B1:
.PP
.RS 4
qdarea \-T 24 \-p merialueet/B1 \-P 'mean(max(wspd)),mean(wdir)'
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qdpoint (1),
.BR qdextract (1),
.BR qdinfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
