.TH QDCROP 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
qdcrop \- extract a subset of querydata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qdcrop
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ inputquerydata ]
.RI [ outputquerydata ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qdcrop
extracts a subset of the original gridded querydata: a subgrid, a
subset of parameters and levels, a subset of times, or a combination of
these. It is commonly used in production routines to reduce the work
required by later processing steps.
.PP
If the output filename is omitted or is
.RB \(lq \- \(rq,
the result is written to standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Input
.TP
.B \-V
Preserve the querydata version number of the input.
.TP
.B \-R
Read all files in the input directory.
.SS Spatial selection
.TP
.BI \-g " WxH+X+Y"
Subgrid in ImageMagick geometry style. For example,
.I 100x200+10+20
extracts a 100\(mu200 grid starting from grid coordinates 10,20.
.TP
.BI \-G " lon1,lat1,lon2,lat2"
Minimal subgrid to crop, defined by the bottom-left and top-right
longitude and latitude.
.TP
.BI \-d " XxY"
Subgrid stepsize. For example,
.I 2x2
extracts every second grid point. Default is
.IR 1x1 .
.TP
.BI \-P " projection"
Interpolate the cropped data to a new projection. The string syntax
matches
.BR qdinterpolatearea (1),
e.g.\&
.IR latlon:x1,y1,x2,y2:20x20km .
.SS Parameters
.TP
.BI \-p " p1,p2,..."
Parameters to extract, as a comma-separated list of names or numbers
(e.g.\&
.I Temperature,Precipitation1h
or
.IR 4,353 ).
By default, all parameters are extracted.
.TP
.BI \-r " p1,p2,..."
Parameters to remove.
.TP
.BI \-a " p1,p2,..."
Parameters to add with missing values, unless already present.
.TP
.BI \-A " p1,p2,..."
Parameters to copy from the origin time to all time steps. Useful for
propagating topography and other static fields.
.TP
.BI \-n " old1,id1,name1,..."
Rename parameters. The argument list must contain three elements per
rename task: the old parameter (number or name), the new id, and the
new name.
.SS Levels
.TP
.BI \-l " l1,l2,..."
Levels to extract, as a comma-separated list of level numbers. By
default, all levels are extracted.
.SS Time selection
.TP
.BI \-S " YYYYMMDDHHMI,..."
Specific time stamps to extract, in UTC.
.TP
.BI \-t " dt1,dt2,dt"
Time interval as offsets from the origin time, in local time. For
example,
.I 24,48
extracts times between +24 and +48 hours.
.I dt1
may be omitted (then assumed zero); the optional
.I dt
sets the desired time step.
.TP
.BI \-T " dt1,dt2,dt"
Same as
.B \-t
but interpreted in UTC.
.TP
.BI \-z " YYYYMMDDHHMI"
Local reference time to use instead of the origin time.
.TP
.BI \-Z " YYYYMMDDHHMI"
UTC reference time to use instead of the origin time.
.TP
.BI \-i " hour"
Extract a specific hour in local time.
.TP
.BI \-I " hour"
Extract a specific hour in UTC.
.TP
.BI \-M " minute"
Extract a specific minute (UTC).
.SS Stations (point data)
.TP
.BI \-w " wmo1,wmo2-wmo3,..."
Stations to keep, identified by WMO numbers or ranges.
.TP
.BI \-W " wmo1,wmo2-wmo3,..."
Stations to remove, identified by WMO numbers or ranges.
.SS Other
.TP
.BI \-m " limit\fR|\fIparam,limit"
Maximum allowed amount of missing values for a time step to be
included. May be limited to a single parameter.
.TP
.BI \-N " name"
Set a new producer name.
.TP
.BI \-D " number"
Set a new producer number.
.SH EXAMPLES
Extract a 200\(mu200 subgrid:
.PP
.RS 4
qdcrop \-g 200x200+0+0 in.sqd out.sqd
.RE
.PP
Crop to a lat/lon bounding box and reduce parameters:
.PP
.RS 4
qdcrop \-G 18,59,32,71 \-p Temperature,Pressure in.sqd out.sqd
.RE
.PP
Extract +24..+48h from origin time, every 3 hours:
.PP
.RS 4
qdcrop \-T 24,48,3 in.sqd out.sqd
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qdcombine (1),
.BR qdinfo (1),
.BR qdinterpolatearea (1),
.BR qdinterpolatetime (1),
.BR qdproject (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
