.TH QDEXTRACT 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
qdextract \- extract point data from gridded or point querydata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qdextract
.RI [ options ]
.I locations
.RI [ inputdata
.RI [ outputdata ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qdextract
reads a list of location descriptions from a file and extracts the
corresponding point time series from gridded or point querydata into a
new querydata file.
.PP
Input and output may be specified positionally or with
.B \-i
and
.BR \-o ;
using
.B \-
as a filename means standard input or standard output. Specifying a
directory or filename for the output enables memory-mapped writes.
.PP
Location files may contain C++-style comments. After comment removal
the file must begin with a number identifying the format:
.IP \(bu 4
1: a NFmiLocationBag C++ object follows.
.IP \(bu 4
2: a row-based location list with the rows
.IR id ", unused, " name ", " "lon lat" .
.IP \(bu 4
3: a free-form list with rows
.IR "id name lon lat" .
Format 3 is recommended for clarity.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the help message.
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the version number.
.TP
.BI \-i " file" ", \-\-infile " file
Input querydata.
.TP
.BI \-o " file" ", \-\-outfile " file
Output querydata.
.TP
.BI \-l " file" ", \-\-locations " file
Location descriptions file.
.SH EXAMPLES
Extract a set of stations from gridded forecast data:
.PP
.RS 4
qdextract stations.txt forecast.sqd points.sqd
.RE
.PP
Read input from stdin and write to stdout:
.PP
.RS 4
qdextract stations.txt < forecast.sqd > points.sqd
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qdpoint (1),
.BR qdarea (1),
.BR qdcrop (1),
.BR qdinfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
