.TH QDFILTER 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
qdfilter \- apply a sliding-window aggregator over querydata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qdfilter
.RI [ options ]
.I startoffset endoffset function querydata
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qdfilter
runs a sliding-window aggregator over the time dimension of the input
querydata. For each output time step the value is computed from input
samples in the offset window
.RI [ startoffset , endoffset ]
in minutes relative to the time step.
.PP
The recognised aggregator functions are
.IR min ", " max ", " mean ", " meanabs ", " sum ", " change ", " median ", " maxmean ", and " sdev
(sample standard deviation).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-Q
Multifile mode \(em use all files in the directory.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
Output filename instead of standard output.
.TP
.BI \-p " param1,param2,..."
Parameters to extract, comma-separated. Default is all parameters.
.TP
.BI \-l " level1,level2,..."
Levels to extract, comma-separated. Default is all levels.
.TP
.B \-a
Keep only the final time step in the data; the start offset is forced
not to exceed the available data range. Useful for computing aggregates
over the whole input.
.TP
.BI \-t " dt1,dt2,dt"
Time interval to extract as offsets in local time from the origin time.
.I dt1
may be omitted (treated as zero); the optional
.I dt
sets the desired time step.
.TP
.BI \-T " dt1,dt2,dt"
Same as
.B \-t
but in UTC.
.TP
.BI \-i " hour"
Extract only the given local-time hour.
.TP
.BI \-I " hour"
Extract only the given UTC hour.
.SH EXAMPLES
Compute the 06\(en18 UTC temperature maximum:
.PP
.RS 4
qdfilter \-p Temperature \-I 18 \-720 0 max forecast.sqd > tmax.sqd
.RE
.PP
Compute the 06\(en18 UTC precipitation sum:
.PP
.RS 4
qdfilter \-p Precipitation1h \-I 18 \-660 0 sum forecast.sqd > rsum.sqd
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qdcrop (1),
.BR qdinterpolatetime (1),
.BR qdgridcalc (1),
.BR qdscript (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
