.TH QDINFO 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
qdinfo \- print information about a querydata file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qdinfo
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qdinfo
prints information about the given querydata file. The user can either
select the subset of information to be printed, such as the locations in
the querydata, or print all of them.
.PP
.B qdinfo
is not usually used in production scripts, but it can be when its output
is processed by a programming language to extract the desired words.
.PP
The querydata filename is not a mandatory argument because option
.B \-l
prints all known parameter names without needing input data. For all
other options, the input file must be given with
.BR \-q .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-q " filename"
The querydata to inspect. If a directory is given, the newest file in it
is used.
.TP
.B \-A
All of the options below combined.
.TP
.B \-l
List all recognized parameter names. Does not require
.BR \-q .
.TP
.B \-p
List all parameters present in the querydata.
.TP
.BI \-T " [format]"
Show querydata times in UTC. An optional
.BR strftime (3)
format string may be given (default
.IR %Y%m%d%H ).
.TP
.B \-a
All of the options below combined.
.TP
.B \-v
Show the querydata version number.
.TP
.B \-P
Show all parameters in the querydata, including subparameters.
.TP
.BI \-t " [format]"
Show querydata times in local time. An optional
.BR strftime (3)
format string may be given.
.TP
.B \-x
Show querydata projection information.
.TP
.B \-X
Show querydata location information.
.TP
.B \-z
Show querydata level information.
.TP
.B \-r
Show querydata producer information.
.TP
.B \-M
Show all metadata values.
.TP
.BI \-m " key"
Show the metadata value for the given key.
.SH EXAMPLES
List parameters in a file:
.PP
.RS 4
qdinfo \-q forecast.sqd \-p
.RE
.PP
Show all known parameter names without reading any data:
.PP
.RS 4
qdinfo \-l
.RE
.PP
Show times, locations and projection of the newest file in a directory:
.PP
.RS 4
qdinfo \-q /data/ecmwf \-T \-X \-x
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qdcrop (1),
.BR qdarea (1),
.BR qdpoint (1),
.BR qdstat (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
