.TH QDPOINT 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
qdpoint \- extract a time series for one or more locations from querydata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qdpoint
.RI [ options ]
.I querydata
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qdpoint
extracts a time series of parameter values for the given location or
locations from gridded or point querydata. It is commonly used in
production for forecast graphs, meteograms and tabular reports.
.PP
Locations may be given by name, longitude/latitude or WMO station
number. Named locations are looked up in the coordinate file, by
default
.IR /smartmet/share/coordinates/default.txt .
.PP
A small number of meta parameters can be requested in addition to the
parameters in the querydata, including
.IR MetaFeelsLike ", " MetaWindChill ", " MetaSummerSimmer ", " MetaThetaE ", " MetaElevationAngle ", " MetaSurfaceRadiation ", " MetaRainProbability ", " MetaSnowProb ", " MetaN ", " MetaNN ", " MetaIsDark ", " MetaDST ", " MetaNorth ,
and
.IR MetaMoonIlluminatedFraction .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the help message.
.TP
.B \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the version number.
.TP
.BI \-q " file" ", \-\-querydata " file
Input querydata. The default is taken from
.IR qdpoint::querydata_file .
.TP
.B \-Q ", " \-\-multidata
Use all files from the input directories.
.TP
.BI \-c " file" ", \-\-coordinatefile " file
Coordinate (location) configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-z " file" ", \-\-timezonefile " file
Time-zone configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-t " zone" ", \-\-timezone " zone
Time zone for the output time stamps.
.TP
.BI \-P " names" ", \-\-params " names
Parameter name or number list.
.TP
.BI \-p " names" ", \-\-places " names
Place name list.
.TP
.BI \-x " lon" ", \-\-longitude " lon
Longitude of an explicit location.
.TP
.BI \-y " lat" ", \-\-latitude " lat
Latitude of an explicit location.
.TP
.BI \-n " rows" ", \-\-rows " rows
Number of data rows for each location (default \-1, all rows).
.TP
.BI \-w " wmo" ", \-\-stations " wmo
WMO station numbers. Plain
.B \-w
or
.B \-w all
selects all stations.
.TP
.B \-s ", " \-\-list
Print station metadata in addition to the data.
.TP
.BI \-l " file" ", \-\-locations " file
Read locations from the given file.
.TP
.B \-f ", " \-\-force
Force printing of empty rows.
.TP
.BI \-d " km" ", \-\-maxdist " km
Maximum search distance for stations (default 100 km).
.TP
.BI \-N " count" ", \-\-count " count
Maximum number of nearby stations to include (default 1).
.TP
.B \-C ", " \-\-validate
Validate rows.
.TP
.BI \-m " string" ", \-\-missingvalue " string
String to print for missing values (default
.IR \- ).
.TP
.BI \-i " minutes" ", \-\-maxgap " minutes
Maximum time gap to fill with interpolation, in minutes.
.TP
.B \-F ", " \-\-future
Print only times in the future.
.TP
.BI \-u " value" ", \-\-uid " value
Unused legacy option.
.SH EXAMPLES
Print temperature and wind for two named locations:
.PP
.RS 4
qdpoint \-q forecast.sqd \-p Helsinki,Tampere \-P Temperature,WindSpeedMS
.RE
.PP
Print all parameters at a coordinate:
.PP
.RS 4
qdpoint \-q forecast.sqd \-x 24.94 \-y 60.17
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qdarea (1),
.BR qdextract (1),
.BR qd2csv (1),
.BR qdinfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
