.TH QDPROJECT 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
qdproject \- convert between map and geographic coordinates
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qdproject
.RI [ options ]
.I "x1,y1 x2,y2 x3,y3 ..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qdproject
converts coordinates between geographic (longitude/latitude) and
projected (pixel or world) representations. The projection can be
described inline with
.BR \-d ,
read from a shape2ps-style configuration file with
.BR \-c ,
or taken from a querydata file with
.BR \-q .
.PP
If no coordinates are given on the command line, whitespace-separated
coordinate pairs are read from standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print the help message.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode \(em the original coordinates are also printed.
.TP
.BI \-d " desc"
Projection description.
.TP
.BI \-c " conf"
Configuration file containing the projection description.
.TP
.BI \-q " querydata"
Querydata in the desired projection.
.TP
.B \-l
Convert lon/lat pairs to pixel coordinates.
.TP
.B \-L
Convert lon/lat pairs to world coordinates.
.TP
.B \-i
Convert pixel coordinates to lon/lat.
.TP
.B \-I
Convert world coordinates to lon/lat.
.SH EXAMPLES
Convert a longitude/latitude pair to world coordinates:
.PP
.RS 4
qdproject \-d stereographic,20:6,51.3,49,70.2:600,\-1 \-L 25,60
.RE
.PP
Use a querydata file's projection:
.PP
.RS 4
qdproject \-q referencedata.sqd \-L 25,60
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qdgridcalc (1),
.BR qdinterpolatearea (1),
.BR qdinfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
