.TH QDSET 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
qdset \- modify metadata fields in querydata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qdset
.RI [ options ]
.I dataFile param
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qdset
modifies metadata in a querydata file in place. Most options affect a
single parameter (selected with the
.I param
argument, given as a parameter id or name); options
.B \-N
and
.B \-D
change the producer for all parameters and do not require the
.I param
argument.
.PP
Default values for the metadata are the parameter's current values, so
only changed fields need to be supplied.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d " paramId"
New parameter id or name (see
.BR qdinfo (1)
.B \-l
for the list of recognised names).
.TP
.BI \-n " description"
New parameter description.
.TP
.BI \-N " name"
New producer name. Applies to all parameters.
.TP
.BI \-D " id"
New producer id. Applies to all parameters.
.TP
.BI \-l " value"
New minimum value for the parameter.
.TP
.BI \-u " value"
New maximum value for the parameter.
.TP
.BI \-i " 0\-5"
New interpolation method (see
.BR FmiInterpolationMethod ).
.TP
.BI \-t " 0\-8"
New parameter type (see
.BR FmiParamType ).
.TP
.BI \-s " value"
New parameter scale.
.TP
.BI \-b " value"
New parameter base.
.TP
.BI \-p " spec"
New parameter precision string, e.g.\&
.IR %0.1f .
.TP
.BI \-Z " value"
New level value.
.TP
.BI \-L " value"
New level type.
.TP
.BI \-T " time"
New UTC origin time in ISO, SQL or timestamp format.
.TP
.BI \-w " stationId"
New station id.
.TP
.BI \-W " stationName"
New station name.
.SH EXAMPLES
Rename the description of the Temperature parameter:
.PP
.RS 4
qdset \-n 'Temperature' forecast.sqd Temperature
.RE
.PP
Change the producer for the whole file:
.PP
.RS 4
qdset \-N ECMWF \-D 240 forecast.sqd
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qdinfo (1),
.BR qdcrop (1),
.BR qdscript (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
