.TH QDSTAT 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
qdstat \- compute statistics on querydata values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qdstat
.RI [ options ]
.I querydata
.br
.B qdstat \-i
.I querydata
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B qdstat
.RI [ options ] " <"
.I querydata
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qdstat
computes simple summary statistics of values in querydata. The output
can be aggregated globally or broken down by time, level, station and
parameter, and can show either counts or percentages or a histogram.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the help message.
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the version number.
.TP
.BI \-i " file" ", \-\-infile " file
Input querydata.
.TP
.B \-T ", " \-\-alltimes
Compute over all times.
.TP
.B \-W ", " \-\-allstations
Compute over all stations.
.TP
.B \-Z ", " \-\-allevels
Compute over all levels.
.TP
.B \-r ", " \-\-percentages
Print percentages instead of counts.
.TP
.B \-d ", " \-\-distribution
Print the distribution of values.
.TP
.BI \-I " value" ", \-\-ignore " value
Ignore the given value when computing statistics.
.TP
.BI \-b " count" ", \-\-bins " count
Maximum number of bins in the distribution.
.TP
.BI \-B " width" ", \-\-barsize " width
Width of the distribution bars.
.TP
.BI \-t " spec" ", \-\-times " spec
Times to process.
.TP
.BI \-p " names" ", \-\-params " names
Parameters to process.
.TP
.BI \-w " ids" ", \-\-stations " ids
Stations to process.
.TP
.BI \-z " levels" ", \-\-levels " levels
Levels to process.
.SH EXAMPLES
Print a histogram of temperature values:
.PP
.RS 4
qdstat \-d \-p Temperature forecast.sqd
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qdmissing (1),
.BR qdcheck (1),
.BR qddifference (1),
.BR qdinfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
