.TH QDTOGRIB 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
qdtogrib \- convert querydata to GRIB
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qdtogrib
.RI [ options ]
.I infile outfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qdtogrib
converts querydata to GRIB format. By default GRIB2 is produced; pass
.B \-1
for GRIB1. The mapping between querydata parameters and GRIB codes is
read from a configuration file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the help message.
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the version number.
.TP
.B \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-D ", " \-\-dump
Dump the resulting GRIB contents using the eccodes dumper.
.TP
.BI \-i " file" ", \-\-infile " file
Input querydata.
.TP
.BI \-o " file" ", \-\-outfile " file
Output GRIB file.
.TP
.B \-1 ", " \-\-grib1
Output GRIB1.
.TP
.B \-2 ", " \-\-grib2
Output GRIB2 (the default).
.TP
.BI \-p " method" ", \-\-packing " method
Packing method, e.g.\&
.IR grid_simple ", " grid_ieee ", " grid_second_order ", " grid_jpeg .
.TP
.BI \-C " centre" ", \-\-centre " centre
Originating centre.
.TP
.BI \-S " subcentre" ", \-\-subcentre " subcentre
Subcentre (default 0).
.TP
.B \-L ", " \-\-list-centres
List the centres known to the tool.
.TP
.B \-d ", " \-\-delete
Ignore parameters that are not listed in the configuration.
.TP
.B \-I ", " \-\-ignore-origintime
Use the first valid time as the forecast time, instead of the origin
time.
.TP
.B \-s ", " \-\-split
Split individual time steps into separate output messages.
.TP
.BI \-l " level" ", \-\-level " level
Extract a specific level only.
.TP
.BI \-c " file" ", \-\-config " file
Configuration file with conversion information (default
.IR /usr/share/smartmet/formats/grib.conf ).
.SH EXAMPLES
Convert a querydata file to GRIB2:
.PP
.RS 4
qdtogrib \-i forecast.sqd \-o forecast.grib2
.RE
.PP
Produce a GRIB1 with JPEG packing:
.PP
.RS 4
qdtogrib \-1 \-p grid_jpeg \-i forecast.sqd \-o forecast.grib
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gribtoqd (1),
.BR grib2toqd (1),
.BR grib2tojpg (1),
.BR qdinfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
