.TH QDVERSIONCHANGE 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
qdversionchange \- change the querydata format version and combined parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qdversionchange
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ qdVersion=7 " " keepCloudSymbol=0 ]
.B <
.I inputdata
.B >
.I outputData
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qdversionchange
re-encodes a querydata file in another format version, optionally
constructing the combined parameters
.IR TotalWind " and " WeatherAndCloudiness
from their components. Various flags control which components are
folded into the combined parameters.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-i " inputfile"
Specify the input filename. Enables memory-mapped input.
.TP
.BI \-t " 0|1"
Build the
.I TotalWind
combined parameter (default 1).
.TP
.BI \-w " 0|1"
Build the
.I WeatherAndCloudiness
combined parameter (default 1).
.TP
.B \-h
Print the help message.
.TP
.BI \-g " parId"
Add a wind gust parameter to TotalWind using the given parameter id.
.TP
.BI \-f " parId-list"
Add precipitation form parameter values to Weather using the listed
parameter ids.
.TP
.BI \-F " parId-list"
Add fog parameter values to Weather using the listed parameter ids.
.TP
.BI \-P " parId-list"
Add probability-of-thunder values to Weather using the listed
parameter ids. Positive ids are removed from the result; negative ids
are kept.
.TP
.B \-a
Allow WeatherAndCloudiness to be created from the minimum
.I N
and one of
.IR rr1h / rr3h / rr6h .
.TP
.BI \-m " count"
Maximum number of worker threads (default: all).
.TP
.B \-p
Add an accurate precipitation parameter and compute SnowFall per 1 h.
.TP
.B \-b
Build a time bag instead of a time list when possible (required by the
TAF editor).
.TP
.B \-N
Convert observed
.I N
parameter from octas to percent (default: not).
.SH EXAMPLES
Convert to version 7 without rebuilding WeatherAndCloudiness:
.PP
.RS 4
qdversionchange \-t 1 \-w 0 7 < input.sqd > output.sqd
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qdcrop (1),
.BR qdcombine (1),
.BR qdinfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
