.TH QDVIEW 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
qdview \- render the grid or station bounding box of querydata as PNG
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qdview
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ querydata ]
.RI [ pngfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qdview
draws the grid in a querydata file (or, for point data, the
longitude/latitude bounding box covered by the stations) onto a PNG
image. Coastline data from GSHHS is rendered behind the grid for
context.
.PP
If neither width nor height is given, the height is computed from the
default width. If only one of the two is given, the other is computed
from the data projection so that the aspect ratio is preserved.
.PP
Available GSHHS resolutions are
.I crude
(25 km),
.I low
(5 km),
.I intermediate
(1 km),
.I high
(0.2 km), and
.IR full .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-x " width"
Image width (default 400).
.TP
.BI \-y " height"
Image height.
.TP
.BI \-m " degrees"
Default margin around map data.
.TP
.BI \-r " char"
GSHHS resolution character (default
.IR crude ).
.TP
.BI \-s " pixels"
Width of the square dot drawn at every grid point.
.TP
.BI \-S " pixels"
Width of the square dot, but only at valid points.
.TP
.BI \-p " param"
Parameter used to determine which points are valid (default: all).
.SH EXAMPLES
Render a grid with low-resolution coastlines:
.PP
.RS 4
qdview \-x 600 \-r l forecast.sqd grid.png
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qdinfo (1),
.BR qdcrop (1),
.BR qdproject (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
