.TH RADARTOQD 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-qdtools" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
radartoqd \- convert OPERA BUFR radar data to querydata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radartoqd
.RI [ options ]
.I infile outfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B radartoqd
converts EUMETNET OPERA BUFR radar data into querydata. For radar data
in HDF5/ODIM format see
.BR h5toqd (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the help message.
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the version number.
.TP
.B \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Disable warning messages.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print debugging information.
.TP
.B \-\-allow-overflow
Allow overflow in packed intensities.
.TP
.BI \-t " dir" ", \-\-tabdir " dir
BUFR tables directory (default
.IR /usr/share/bufr ).
.TP
.BI \-i " file" ", \-\-infile " file
Input BUFR file.
.TP
.BI \-o " file" ", \-\-outfile " file
Output querydata file.
.TP
.BI \-\-param " name"
Parameter name to use in the output.
.TP
.BI \-P " proj" ", \-\-projection " proj
Output projection.
.TP
.BI \-p " number,name" ", \-\-producer " number,name
Producer number and name.
.TP
.BI \-\-producernumber " number"
Producer number (default 1014).
.TP
.BI \-\-producername " name"
Producer name (default RADAR).
.SH EXAMPLES
Convert an OPERA BUFR radar file:
.PP
.RS 4
radartoqd \-i radar.bufr \-o radar.sqd
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR h5toqd (1),
.BR pgm2qd (1),
.BR combinepgms2qd (1),
.BR bufrtoqd (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-qdtools/issues>.
